( theme music playing )
( metal jangling;
creaking )
( Sofie whispering )
BEN? BEN, WAKE UP.
- WHAT HAPPENED?
- I SMELL SMOKE.
NO FIRE.
NO SMOKE.
NOTHING.
- ARE YOU SURE?
- YEAH, I'M SURE.
THERE'S NOTHING.
MAYBE IT WAS A DREAM.
YEAH, MAYBE.
PROBABLY.
( barks )
GABE?
Tommy:
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO TURN
SOME OF THESE PEOPLE AWAY.
WE ALREADY WENT
OVER THIS, MR. DOLAN.
I WENT OVER IT WITH YOU,
NOW WITH YOUR BROTHER.
- JUSTIN?
- NOT A SINGLE SOUL
WILL BE TURNED AWAY.
FOR PETE'S SAKE, JUSTIN,
YOU KNOW THE ONLY REASON
A LOT OF THEM ARE HERE
IS FOR A HOT MEAL.
THEN THEY WILL BE FED.
( laughing )
IT'S NOT JUST THE FOOD.
A LOT OF THESE PEOPLE
MIGHT BE CRIMINALS.
THERE'S A LOT OF MONEY
POURING IN.
- MAYBE THEY'RE LOOKING
FOR AN ANGLE--
- ( splashes )
DAMN IT!
THEY'RE NOT ALL HERE
TO BE SAVED, BROTHER JUSTIN.
THEY'VE COME BECAUSE
THEY WERE CALLED,
MR. DOLAN.
I NEED THEM ALL.
Sofie:
EVERYTHING SEEMS WORSE
WHEN I'M TRYING TO SLEEP.
I SMELLED SMOKE.
IT WASN'T A DREAM.
IT WASN'T.
SOMETIMES I WONDER
IF ALL THIS AIN'T THE DREAM.
IF IT IS,
I WANT TO WAKE UP.
YOU SHOULD DO THAT MORE.
I WAS WONDERING...
IF YOU WANNA DO ONE
OF THOSE READINGS
WITH THE CARDS.
IT DOESN'T WORK
WITHOUT MAMA.
WE COULD GIVE IT A SHOT.
I DON'T DO THAT ANYMORE.
DO ME A FAVOR,
GET THE CARDS.
BURN THEM.
TAKE THEM OUT OF MY PLACE
AND BURN THEM.
I DON'T EVER WANT
TO SEE 'EM AGAIN.
I TAKE IT YOU'LL
BE NEEDING A TRUCK.
YEAH.
BEEN IN INGRAM A WEEK.
A SHIT BURG LIKE THIS...
IT AIN'T WORTH A DAY.
WHAT'RE YOU SAYIN'?
IF WE STICK AROUND
MUCH LONGER,
THEY'RE GONNA
START GROUSING.
YOU TELL HIM I'M DOING
THE BEST I CAN.
- HE KNOWS THAT.
- THEN WHY YOU CRAWLING UP
MY HOOP ABOUT IT?
I'VE BEEN
ALL OVER THIS PLACE.
I AIN'T FOUND NOTHING.
IT'S NOT LIKE KERRIGAN
GAVE ME A ROAD MAP.
ALL RIGHT,
I'M JUST ASKING.
THERE'S SOME RANCH ROADS
IN THE HILLS.
I'M GONNA RUN THEM OUT,
SEE WHAT'S WHAT.
I'LL TELL HIM.
KID...
WATCH YOUR BACK.
IS THAT COMING
FROM YOU OR HIM?
IT'S BOTH OF US.
- ( ragtime music blaring )
- ( wind roaring )
TURN OFF THAT DAMNED
SQUAWK-O-DYNE.
Announcer:
Drink Moxie,
the only soft drink
with the genuine
Moxie taste.
MOXIE, THE ONLY SOFT DRINK
YOU'LL EVER CRAVE.
AND NOW,
LADIES AND GENTLEMAN,
LEND A KIND EAR,
AS WE BRING YOU
Brother Justin's
Saturday morning
"Church of the Air"!
GOOD MORNING,
BROTHERS AND SISTERS.
I WAS JUST MAKING SOME NOTES
A FEW MOMENTS AGO.
AND YOU'LL NEVER BELIEVE
WHAT I WAS THINKING ABOUT.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT...
SALT.
IN MANY WAYS,
SALT MIGHT APPEAR TO BE
A CURSE FROM ABOVE.
THE SALT FROM THE SWEAT
OF OUR BACK-BREAKING LABORS.
THE SALT FROM THE TEARS
OF A CHILD GONE HUNGRY.
THE SALT RUBBED UNMERCIFULLY
INTO THE LASH MARKS
LEFT BY THE WHIP.
THE OCEANS THEMSELVES,
GREAT BODIES OF WATER
THAT MIGHT IRRIGATE
THIS WITHERED LAND,
BUT CANNOT. AND WHY?
BECAUSE THEY ARE
POISONED WITH SALT.
AND YET... WE KNOW
THAT IT IS NOT A CURSE;
IT IS A BLESSING.
A MERE PINCH KILLS
THE WRITHING SLUG
THAT RAVISHES OUR GARDEN,
the leech that sucks
our lifeblood.
And let us not forget,
brothers and sisters,
the salt upon our tables,
PURE AND WHITE,
THAT INCREASES
OUR ENJOYMENT
OF GOD'S SIMPLE BOUNTY.
Ruthie:
YOU MIND?
- WHAT HAPPENED?
- THEY'VE BEEN SKITTISH.
ONE OF THEM MUST'VE BIT
THE OTHERS...
OR THEY GOT SICK.
WHO KNOWS WHY
SOME THINGS DIE?
WHY YOU BEEN
DUCKING ME, BEN?
I DON'T KNOW WHAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
YEAH?
THEN WHY WON'T YOU
EVEN LOOK AT ME?
IF I DID SOMETHING TO YOU,
OR SAID SOMETHING,
YOU STAND UP LIKE A MAN,
BEN HAWKINS, AND YOU TELL ME.
DON'T YOU HIDE
FROM ME LIKE YOU HIDE
FROM EVERYTHING ELSE.
I AIN'T HIDING FROM YOU.
WELL, YOU'RE DOING
A PRETTY GOOD IMPERSONATION.
OKAY, I DON'T WANT
TO BE AROUND YOU.
SATISFIED?
YOU'RE SCARED OF SOMETHING.
THE ONLY THING SCARES ME
IS FOLKS USING OTHER FOLKS
TO USE ME.
YOU THINK
I WANT TO USE YOU?
FOR WHAT?
FORGET IT, GOD DAMN IT.
IT AIN'T EVEN ABOUT YOU!
JUST FORGET EVERYTHING.
YOU SAID IT--
SOME THINGS DIE;
SOME THINGS DON'T.
( ragtime music playing )
Rita Sue:
I CAN'T KEEP UP
THIS PACE, FELIX.
Stumpy:
OH HELL,
THIS AIN'T NOTHING.
YOU GOT US PUTTING OUT
FROM NOON TILL SUNDAY.
WELL, THIS ONE HERE'S
A SPECIAL FELLOW.
TRUTH BE TOLD, HE'S AN ALDERMAN,
COULD BE MAYOR OF INGRAM
SOME DAY.
I THOUGHT IT WOULD MAKE...
MAKE PRETTY GOOD SENSE
FOR THE FUTURE, IS WHA
I THOUGHT.
YOU'RE FULL OF SHIT,
AS USUAL.
OKAY, THEN.
I'LL SEND HIM ON HIS WAY.
NO MATTER.
YOU SAY THE WORD.
I'M ALL...
MESSED UP
DOWN THERE.
( belches )
( groans )
JUST GET OUT OF HERE.
GET!
( fizzing )
HEY, SOFIE!
DID YOU DO
LIKE I ASKED?
YEAH, I BURNED THEM.
EXCEPT THIS ONE.
WHAT'S IT MEAN?
NEVER SEEN IT BEFORE.
IT WAS IN THERE
WITH THE OTHERS.
WELL, I'VE SEEN EVERY ONE
A THOUSAND TIMES.
IT'S NOT ONE OF MINE.
IT WAS IN THERE
WITH THE OTHERS!
THEN BURN IT!
WELCOME HOME, NORMAN.
HEY, JONES.
LIBBY.
- HERE, I GOT IT.
- NO, DON'T.
NO, NO.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
PUT HER THERE.
THERE YOU GO.
Samson:
HEY, JONESY.
HOW YOU DOING THERE,
BUTTERCUP?
- HOW COME YOU AIN'T INSIDE?
- COMMERCE.
SINCE WHEN'D YOUR MAMA
PLY HER TRADE BEFORE
THE CRACK OF NOON?
ASK HER SQUEALING JOHNNIE.
I COULD USE AN EXTRA PAIR
OF HANDS ON COLOSSUS.
HELL, YOU GOT FOUR GUYS
ON THERE NOW.
THREE GUYS.
Samson:
SHE SEEMS TO BE
HOLDING HER OWN.
Jones:
IT AIN'T HER.
IT'S THE REST OF THEM.
THEY DON'T LIKE IT.
- SINCE WHEN DOES THAT CUT ICE?
- PLUS SHE DON'T KNOW JACK.
SO? OSGOOD DON'T KNOW
HOW TO FIND HIS PECKER
IF THE LIGHT ISN'T ON.
HE MANAGES.
LOOK, IF YOU'RE ANGLING
TO GET HER ASS CAND,
YOU'RE HUNTING
WITH THE WRONG DOG.
I LIKE HER.
HELL, SAMSON!
IT'S YOUR SHOW--
AND IT'S YOUR CREW!
YOU WANNA CAN HER,
DON'T EVEN TALK TO ME.
YOU HANDLE IT!
( clangs )
WATCH IT UP THERE!
SORRY.
LITTLE LATE IN THE DAY
FOR BREAKFAST.
HONEY PIE,
I COULD EAT BREAKFAST
THREE TIMES A DAY.
GIVE A HOLLER
IF THERE'S ANYTHING ELSE.
ONE THING--
THE NIGHT OF THE FIRE
AT THE MISSION,
YOU SAW THE CAR.
DAMNED VULTURE.
YOU WANT A STORY,
TALK TO THE COPS.
IT'S OVER.
WHY DON'T YOU
GIVE IT A REST?
YOU KNOW, A YOUNG LADY
CAME TO ME THE OTHER DAY,
NO OLDER THAN YOU,
I'M SURE.
SHE WAS A GOOD CHRISTIAN
WHO HAD BEEN IN A BAD WAY.
AN UNWED MOTHER,
HAD TO GIVE HER BABY UP
A FEW YEARS BACK.
SHE'D GOTTEN HER LIFE
BACK ON TRACK
AND TOLD ME
I COULD INTERVIEW HER
IF I COULD JUST FIND OUT
IF HER BABY
WAS AMONG THOSE WHO PERISHED
IN THE MINTERN FIRE.
I HAD TO TELL HER
HE WAS.
ME, NOT THE COPS.
NOW, WHAT I COULDN'T
TELL HER
WAS THAT THE FLESH
OF THOSE CHILDREN
ROASTED SO BLACK,
IT FELL STRAIGHT AWAY
FROM THEIR LITTLE BONES
WHEN THEY TRIED
TO MOVE THEM.
( change jingles )
"LET IT REST"?
HOW DO YOU SUPPOSE
SHE RESTS?
THOSE KIDS ARE RESTING?
HE WAS SLUMPED DOWN.
SLUMPED DOWN,
OR NOT VERY TALL?
I COULDN'T SEE HIM.
YOU'RE SURE
IT WAS A HIM?
COULD IT HAVE BEEN
A WOMAN?
YEAH. YEAH,
IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
JUST ONE MORE THING--
TOAST.
I ASKED
FOR WHEAT TOAST.
DRY.
YEAH.
HOWDY, FRIEND.
YOU KNOW SOMEBODY
AROUND THESE PARTS
CALLED THE CRONE?
TAKE THIS ROAD
FOR A COUPLE OF MILES,
AND RIGHT UP YONDER,
THE ROAD SPLITS.
YOU BEAR RIGHT,
THEN YOU WILL BE ON
OLD CHERRY BLOSSOM ROAD.
YOU GO TILL YOU SEE
A HOUSE.
HOW DO I KNOW
THE HOUSE?
AIN'T BUT ONE.
HEY, HEY,
HOLD UP A MITE,
FRIEND.
HERE. COME ON OUT.
I NEED TO SHOW YOU
SOMETHING.
- WHAT?
- WELL, COME ON OUT.
I WON'T HURT YOU.
GO ON.
SHOW HIM.
WHAT THE HELL
YOU DO THAT FOR?
SHE'S ABNORMAL.
A RETARD.
BUT SHE DON'T COMPLAIN.
WON'T TELL NOBODY.
BACK OF YOUR TRUCK
FOR $2.
SHE'S TIGHT.
( whimpering )
I'M SORRY.
DON'T DO THAT NO MORE.
NO, I WON'T.
EVER AGAIN.
( sniveling )
Stroud:
* JUST ME AND MY SHADOW
* ALL ALONE
AND FEELIN' BLUE... *
( humming )
HENRY SCUDDER.
LOOK AT YOU.
* AND WHEN IT'S 12:00
* WE CLIMB THE STAIRS
* WE NEVER KNOCK
( echoing )
* 'CAUSE NOBODY'S THERE.
Justin:
* AND WHEN IT'S 12:00
* AND WE CLIMB
THE STAIRS *
* WE NEVER KNOCK
* FOR THERE'S NOBODY--
WHOOP!
THERE.
YOU KNOW,
I CAN REMEMBER...
SITTING
AT YOUR KNEE
AT THE PERGOLA
IN THE COOL
SPRING EVENINGS
WHILE YOU READ
YOUR BIBLE.
OPEN.
GOOD.
I REMEMBER TRYING
TO LIFT IT.
IT SEEMED TOO HEAVY
FOR ONE PERSON TO HOLD.
YOU KNOW THE FIRST WORD
I COULD READ IN ENGLISH--
OPEN.
--WAS FROM YOUR BIBLE.
IT WAS "GARDEN."
REMEMBER?
OH, IT'S GOING
TO GLISTEN, NORMAN.
THE RADIO TOWER ALONE
WILL BE OVER 200 FEET TALL.
DID I TELL YOU
WHAT TOMMY DOLAN SAID?
HE SAID,
IN A SINGLE
COAST-TO-COAST
BROADCAST...
I WILL SPEAK
TO MORE SOULS
THAN OUR LORD DID
IN HIS ENTIRE LIFETIME.
IT'S GOING
TO BE BREATHTAKING.
THAT'S RIGHT, GENTLEMEN,
STEP RIGHT UP IN CLOSE
TO WITNESS THE PLUSH, RICH
TEXTURE OF WOMANHOOD
SELDOM SEEN.
PLENTY OF ROOM, BOYS.
STEP ON IN.
YOU AIN'T GONNA
LIKE THIS, MAMA.
C'MON BOYS.
COME ON IN TIGHT
AND GET A GANDER
OF SOMETHING YOU'RE NOT
LIKELY TO SEE
UNTIL YOUR WEDDING NIGHT,
AND MAYBE NOT EVEN THEN.
( chuckles )
COME ON OUT HERE,
LITTLE FLOWERS,
AND DEMONSTRATE THE MEANING
OF THE WORD DESIRE!
( cheering )
( burlesque music playing )
THIS IS NOT
YOUR MOTHER.
THIS IS
NOT YOUR SISTER.
THIS IS NOT
YOUR AUNT CLAUDINE.
FRET NOT,
GENTLEMEN,
WHERE YOUR IMAGINATION
WILL TAKE YOU.
IT TAKES YOU
TO A LAND
WHERE ONLY PLEASURE
RESIDES.
( boys hooting )
YOU BEEN SWIGGING
WOOD ALCOHOL AGAIN?
- WHAT?
- YOU'RE PEDDLING FLESH TO A
GODDAMN SUNDAY SCHOOL OUTING.
DON'T YOU EVER DEMEAN
WHAT I DO.
I DO NOT PEDDLE FLESH.
I SELL DREAMS.
THIS IS WHAT COMES FROM DOING
A SHOW BEFORE DUSK.
IF THEY DON'T RUN US OUT
THEY'RE GONNA LOCK US UP.
Stumpy:
NO, NO, DARLING.
NO, NO, NO.
THE LITTLE
FRECKLY-FACED KID OUT THERE,
HE'S THE SHERIFF'S SON.
SEE, HIS OLD MAN
SLIPPED ME A FIN,
TOLD ME TO WALK THEM IN.
AND YOU KNOW ME.
I NEVER ARGUE WITH LAW
OR LOCAL CUSTOM.
WE DOING KIDDIE SHOWS NOW?
IT'S HIS BIRTHDAY.
OH.
YOU BETTER GO OUT THERE.
GET ON. YOUR DAUGHTER'S
DANCING LONELY.
( sighs )
( cheering )
HEY THERE, BUD!
HEY. WHY DON'T YOU
GET ON IN THERE
FREE OF CHARGE?
OH GOD,
IT'S GONNA BE A HELL
OF A BLOW-OFF.
I AIN'T HERE
FOR NO TITTY SHOW.
OH HELL NO.
I KNOW THAT.
WELL.
I HAD BETTER--
I'D BETTER GET BACK
ON IN THERE
OR THE WARDEN WILL
SKIN ME ALIVE.
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
LATER.
AFTER THE SHOW.
( squeaking )
HEY!
( buzzing )
ANYBODY?
I'D LIKE TO SEND
A TELEGRAM, PLEASE.
TO JUSTIN CROWE,
MINTERN, CALIFORNIA,
FROM...
MICHAEL.
"LEAVING TEXAS. STOP.
PUSHING ON
TO NEW MEXICO. STOP.
IMPRESSIVE SCENERY.
STOP."
OH--
MAKE THAT COLLECT.
YES, SIR.
( twig cracks )
- ANYONE?
- ( distant shouting )
I AIN'T NO TRESPASSER.
- WHAT'S YOURS IS YOURS.
- ( men hooting )
( noises continuing )
( metal clattering )
I AIN'T THE LAW!
I AIN'T NO POACHER!
( hollering )
( grunts )
( rock whizzes )
- ( whizzes )
- ( grunts )
COME ON.
- ( laughing )
- ( Ben coughing )
( sighs )
( softly )
WHEN YOU WERE A KID,
YOU THOUGHT THE SEAMS
WERE VEINS.
- ( exotic music playing )
- Man: YOU'RE SOMETHING ELSE,
HONEY.
Man 2:
COME ON, GIVE IT A KISS!
- ( snake hisses )
- ( man cackles )
( gasps )
( gasping )
SOMEBODY HELP!
- KILL IT.
- Man: YEAH, KILL IT.
- KILL IT!
- YOU HEARD HER, KILL IT.
( screaming )
( monkey chittering )
HEY, THAT SHITSACK MONKEY
IS TRYING TO GET MY 'SHINE.
( spits )
( laughing )
LOOK AT THAT FUCKING MONKEY.
ALL HE DOES IS
PISS AND SHIT.
WHAT'RE YOU DOING?
AIN'T IT CLEAR?
THAT'S ENOUGH NOW.
LEAVE SOME FOR THE WORMS.
I SAID THAT'S
E-GODDAMN-NOUGH!
GO BURY HIM.
DEEP!
NOT LIKE THE LAST ONE.
THAT'S RIGHT, JOANNE.
YOU A PRETTY LITTLE LADY,
THAT'S WHAT YOU ARE.
YEAH, THAT'S WHAT YOU ARE.
Man:
INSIDE'S SHUT DOWN!
( honks )
Stumpy:
I'M SORRY
IT'S TAKEN SO LONG,
BUT WE HAVE BEEN WORKING
TRIPLE-TIME
- JUST TO MAKE THINGS RIGHT.
- Bud: THAT'S SWEET.
WHERE IS IT?
Bud:
WHERE'S THE REST?
Stumpy:
LOOK, DO YOU
WANT A DRINK?
- NEXT WEEK?
- NEXT WEEK.
DON'T, UH...
DON'T MAKE ME
TAKE MEASURES.
- NO. HELL NO.
- NO.
BUD, I WOULD NEVER
MAKE YOU DO THAT.
- NO, NOT EVER.
- Bud: NO, OF COURSE.
- NEXT WEEK, THEN?
- YES, SIR.
THAT'S MIGHTY WHITE
OF YOU.
WELL, HEY THERE,
LAMBCHOP!
YOU REMEMBER BUD EVERHARD,
MY OLD PARTNER IN CRIME.
- I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
- BUD AND I TRIED TO OPEN
THAT CATHOUSE
ON THE RESERVATION
OUTSIDE ALBUQUERQUE
ONCE UPON A TIME.
IT WAS...
( laughing )
I TOLD YOU THAT ONE.
I TOLD YOU THAT,
I'M SURE.
I TOLD HER THAT ONE
50 TIMES.
UH-HUH.
I HAVE ANOTHER STOP
TO MAKE,
BUT IT WAS A PLEASURE
MEETING YOU, MRS. DREIFUSS.
NEXT WEEK.
BEST EGG IN THE WORLD,
BUD EVERHARD.
RAN INTO SOME HARD LUCK
RECENTLY WITH THIS WIDOW
HE TOOK UP WITH--
HOW MUCH ARE YOU
INTO HIM FOR?
NOW, YOU SEE,
WHY DO YOU DO THAT?
I GOT A TOUGH HIDE,
BUT SOMETIMES
IT'S LIKE YOU AIM
TO HURT ME SOMETIMES.
WHAT DO YOU WANT?!
"I MAY NOT RETURN WITH THEE
AND NOR GO IN WITH THEE
BY THE BY,
EAT BREAD WITH THEE
NOR DRINK WATER WITH THEE
IN THIS PLACE."
OH, DEAR.
GOODNESS!
YES.
TERRIBLY CLUMSY OF ME.
DOWN THERE.
CELESTE?
YOU LOOK AS IF
YOU'RE ABOUT TO PRAY.
YOUR MOTHER TAUGHT YOU
HOW TO PRAY, DIDN'T SHE?
- ( sighs deeply )
- ( zipper unzips )
OH, MY DEAR, DEAR CELESTE.
I WILL SHOW YOU THINGS.
WONDERFUL, TERRIBLE THINGS.
( panting )
THAT'S IT?
$3.28, A HOBO KNIFE
AND SOME GODDAMN BUTTONS?
THAT DON'T HELP.
SHE'S HOLDING OUT.
HEY, COME ON.
COME ON.
COME ON!
LOOK AT THAT.
I SAID.
YOU SEE THAT!
IT'S SILVER.
- OH, SHIT.
- WHAT?
OH SHIT.
HEY, ERN! ERN!
STOP!
- WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
DAMN IT!
- STOP!
DIG!
- COME ON, SET HIM DOWN.
- ( panting )
( coughing )
GO ON.
YOU OKAY?
LOOK AT THIS.
IS THIS YOURS?
- HUH?
- YEAH, YEAH.
SHE'S BEEN WAITING
FOR YOU.
YES, SIR.
( wind gusting )
WHO'S THERE?
LODZ.
WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN?
( classical waltz
playing )
( door closes )
( static )
Justin's voice:
In lush green pastures
the shepherd lies down
with his flock.
But he does not sleep,
forever vigilant
against the beast.
The sheep are nothing
without the shepherd,
but prey to the beasts
of the night.
When the sheep gives its life
for the shepherd's table,
there is no greater honor.
( theme music playing )